We've seen this little bit already but
there is this fantastic feature that I
don't hear a whole lot of talk about.
It's part of ES6 called template strings,
so
this is a new part of the language
that has multiline stream syntax.
So if I go ahead and
run this program, what it's gonna
do is, Call it template.js.
So this file will just
print out those strings,
and it can use variables
from the environment.
So here I have a variable called n, so
this is gonna print hi then on the next
line, it's gonna print n equals 5, and
then on the next line,
it's gonna print something else.
So, really simple it seems
like this isn't so important.
I guess it could replace a lot of places
where you have to load a custom template
engine into the browser.
So you kind of get this for free now,
and there are ways to run pre-processing
steps when you ship for production in
case people's browsers who are loading
your page don't have this feature yet,
although it's pretty well supported.
There's also this thing that's
even more obscure called tags,
template, string and these are really
fantastic, it looks a bit odd.
So if I go into this function again,
so you can put another function,
I'll call it tag in front
of the opening backtick,
that is the template string function.
And what this lets you do,
is write your own
implementation of how you
want the templating to work.
So how it works is you get an array
of different string chunks and
then everything that's put in
these dollar sign curly braces,
you also get a handle on that.
I'll just print out the arguments,
Then the return value is the return
value of this whole thing.
So it's like calling the function yourself
with like a second write out long form,
what that would be.
So these two things would be equivalent,
so this would be hi,
'n = 'Wow', I guess there would be
like new lines and stuff in there.
It would be hi in equals actually.
And then it would be wow, so
that would be the same thing.
And then the additional arguments
that are passed in are all of
the values that are interpolated.
Kind of a bit esoteric,
but the important thing is
you can have quite sophisticated
ways of doing templating,
and also other kinds of
things all together like for
example, you can use this technique
to have GLSL shaders in webGL.
So there's a modular system called
GLSLFI that uses this technique as well.
We'll be going in to that a little bit
later, so if I just run this program now,
we see the arguments, so
the first argument is that array, and
then the second argument is all of the
interpolated values that are passed in.
So I've got a little library for doing
this kind of stuff that's now used in
quite a few packages that
we'll be talking about.
It's called hyper x,
and it's an HTML parser
that's built to be used in this way
as a tagged template string function.
What that looks like,
is you load up the module hyperx,
then you can pass in your
own implementation for
what's going to happen for every tag.
So here the arguments that hyperx is
going to supply are the tag name,
so that's like a div, or input,
or text area, whatever you like.
The props are all of the things maybe
you like the class equals whatever,
and so that's an object that
map's all of those properties.
And then the children are if you have
something that is not self closing,
like a div tag, then the children
are everything that lives
in beside between the div,
and the </div> at the end.
So, you can imagine how you might be able
to use one of these new techniques for
building front end like a virtual DOM.
Or Dom diffing to build your own virtual
Dom infrastructure with
a pretty nice template
syntax with just a small
reusable library like this.
If I run this program,
it's gonna gonna print out the tag name,
the props and the children for
every little bit.
So I'll call this html.js or
I'll call it hyperx.js,
So here's our program, I run it, I get
back so these things are the first that
were printed, so see that the h1 tag is
in there, the div tag is in there we also
got some some attributes like
3,000 is the interpolated value.